Tutorial/tutorial.md, before:

# This is a tutorial on how to use the scripts 

## The script to pre-process the gnomAD vcf file can be found in the folder: gnomAD_preprocessing 

1. Download gnomAD v2. exome data from: https://gnomad.broadinstitute.org/downloads
2. Use the script 2023-02-09_script_to_convert_vcf_to_csv_input.sh to convert the raw vcf into a smaller csv file 
3. Use the script 2023-02-15_binning_GnomADAdjacentIndel.ipynb to bin the indels and assign the indels to different bins 

## The scripts to calculate sAF and rAF are in the folder: calculating_sAF_rAF

Use the sAF calculation script first to get the input for the rAF calculation script. 

## The scripts for the figures are in the folder: figures 

### Figure 1 

First use the script 2022-12-07_fig_1_input_gnomad.py to get the input for the script  20221121_fig_1_gnomad.py. 

### Figure 2 

First use the script 2022-12-06_fig_2_input_table_S1_S2.R to get the input for the script 2022-12-06_fig_2.py. 

### Figure 3 

Use the script 20220930_fig_3_IGM_variants_in_MED12.R. 

### Figure 4 

Use the script 20221111_fig_4.py.

### Figure 5 

First use the script 2022-12-29_fig_5_input.R to get the input for the scripts 2022-12-28_fig_5_bargraph_gnomad.py and 2022-12-28_fig_5_logreg_gnomad.py.


## Tables and Supplementary Figures 

In the folder called tables. 

## Data Files

Sample data files for gnomAD data can be found in the folder <a href = "https://github.com/ColumbiaCPMG/RegionalAlleleFrequency/tree/main/data_files">data_files</a>.

Please note that some data files are too large to be uploaded to GitHub so they were excluded.

Commit message:

remove_indels_gt_50bp_new_rAF

Tutorial/tutorial.md, after:

# This is a tutorial on how to use the scripts 

## The script to pre-process the gnomAD vcf file can be found in the folder: gnomAD_preprocessing 

1. Download gnomAD v2. exome data from: https://gnomad.broadinstitute.org/downloads
2. Use the script 2023-02-09_script_to_convert_vcf_to_csv_input.sh to convert the raw vcf into a smaller csv file 
3. Use the script 2023-02-15_binning_GnomADAdjacentIndel.ipynb to bin the indels and assign the indels to different bins 

## The scripts to calculate sAF and rAF are in the folder: calculating_sAF_rAF

Use the sAF calculation script first to get the input for the rAF calculation script. 

## Removing indels greater >50bp in length.

Use the script 2023-03-06_remove_indels_gt_50bp.R to remove indels that are >50bp in length. 

## The scripts for the figures are in the folder: figures 

### Figure 1 

First use the script 2022-12-07_fig_1_input_gnomad.py to get the input for the script  20221121_fig_1_gnomad.py. 

### Figure 2 

First use the script 2022-12-06_fig_2_input_table_S1_S2.R to get the input for the script 2022-12-06_fig_2.py. 

### Figure 3 

Use the script 20220930_fig_3_IGM_variants_in_MED12.R. 

### Figure 4 

Use the script 20221111_fig_4.py.

### Figure 5 

First use the script 2022-12-29_fig_5_input.R to get the input for the scripts 2022-12-28_fig_5_bargraph_gnomad.py and 2022-12-28_fig_5_logreg_gnomad.py.


## Tables and Supplementary Figures 

In the folder called tables. Some of the scripts for the figures will also generate information for the tables/supplementaries and they are labelled accordingly.

## Data Files

Sample data files for gnomAD data can be found in the folder <a href = "https://github.com/ColumbiaCPMG/RegionalAlleleFrequency/tree/main/data_files">data_files</a>.

Please note that some data files are too large to be uploaded to GitHub so they were excluded.
